---
title: Religion and Spirituality
author: Somil Garg
authorURL: http://twitter.com/somilgarg181 
---

### Religion and Spirituality
<!--truncate--> 

Difference between Religion & Spirituality:

* Religion is not just one,there are many.
* Spirituality is one. 



* Religion is for those who sleep.
* Spirituality is for those who are awake.



* Religion is for those who need someone to tell them what to do and want to be guided.
* Spirituality is for those who pay attention to their inner voice.



* Religion has a set of dogmatic rules.
* Spirituality invites us to explore within and get attuned to the Universal Rules.



* Religion threatens and frightens.
* Spirituality gives inner peace.


* Religion speaks of sin and guilt.
* Spirituality leads us on the path of emancipation!


* Religion represses everything which it considers false.
* Spirituality transcends everything, it brings us closer to our Truth!



* Religion invents.
* Spirituality helps us to discover.



* Religion does not tolerate any question.
* Spirituality encourages searching questions.


* Religion is human. It is an organization with rules made by men.
* Spirituality is Divine, without human rules...leads us to the Causeless Cause!


* Religion divides betweeen us and them.
* Spirituality unites.


* Religion feeds on fear.
* Spirituality feeds on trust and faith.


* Religion makes us to live in External REality.
* Spirituality lives in Inner Consciousness.


* Religion deals with performing rituals.
* Spirituality has to do with the inner Self.


* Religion feeds on internal ego.
* Spirituality drives to transcend beyond self.


* Religion makes us renounce the world to follow a God.
* Spirituality makes us live in God, without renouncing our existing lives.


* Religion is a cult.
* Spirituality is inner meditational.


* Religion fills us with dreams of glory in paradise.
* Spirituality makes us live the glory and paradise on earth.


* Religion lives in the past and in the future.
* Spirituality lives in the present.



* Religion creates cloisters in our memory.
* Spirituality liberates our Consciousness.  




**We are not human beings,who go through a _spiritual experience_**.  
**We are spiritual beings,who go through a _human experience_**.